This is going to be a mix between a time tracking and a scheduling app. This app will have two main functionalities. One, is it will be numbering out how much time you have in a day to study/work so it would have 24 hours minus like 10 hours for yourself and sleep and then you'd have your classes or whatever also in there. To be clear, this wouldn’t be like an hour by hour schedule, it would just be basically over every day and the week as a whole, how much time you have that could be devoted to your chosen task. And this daily hour schedule, with a more simple interface and less complicated rules, would provide the foundation for how the app helps you manage your time.

I want there to be a sort of productivity factor - 100% would mean that you’re spending literally all your time on task with maximum efficiency. The expectation should not be that you will get to 100% efficiency, or even that you would increase it - the efficiency is just something so that the system knows how best to schedule your time.

There should also be a concept of task categories/groups. Taking the example of a college student’s time, there would not only be the concept of assignments vs studying, but there would also be different classes tasks could be put into, which could also double as personal projects or whatever the user wants. These classes should also have different priorities, so the time scheduler would be able to have you doing one over another if they’re in contention. I also don’t want the user to have to do too much input - the task categories should be able to be autodetected based on different times the task takes etc.

The second thing this app would be able to do is with all of the data put in about how long different things took, it would be able to give a good estimate of how much time something will take. Then, it would be able to, when you’ve given it an inventory of all the tasks you have to do, it would schedule the tasks out and make it so that the timing all works.

I also want there to be like a tasks in progress screen, where you can keep track of all the things you haven’t finished but you started, and that’s also where you can start new tasks, either from your backlog or just creating new ones if they weren’t already in the system.

I would also like there to be a system for warnings - I want this app to be kind and gentle, because I don’t believe people do the best they can when they’re under pressure. To that end, I would like there to be a system for warnings that allows the user to customize when they would get warned about assignments in a certain category or class - e.g. rulesets for warnings. I also want there to be a couple of standard rulesets for warnings that the user can apply to different assignments.

I would also like there to be a system for welcoming users back after maybe they’ve been away a while or maybe they stopped tracking their tasks. I’d like this to involve an easy interface to go through all the tasks that were in progress, and mark if they are still in progress or not. I also want users to be able to go through all the tasks that according to the system are overdue, and sort them into like, yes this got completed, no this one was lost and I don’t have any intention of completing it, and no this didn’t get done and I still want to get this done, as soon as possible/at some point.

I also want this app to be easy to work with, having tests, debugging support, and easy extensibility.